ProjectSummary.md, before:

# Excel to Word Converter - Project Summary

## Project Overview

This project implements a .NET WinForms application that converts data from Excel files to Word documents according to specific requirements.

## Features Implemented

1. **User Interface**:
   - File selection for input Excel file
   - File selection for output Word document
   - Process button to initiate conversion
   - Progress bar and status indicators

2. **Data Processing**:
   - Reads Excel files using ClosedXML library
   - Processes data with "Nr projektu" (Project Number) and "Data" (Date) columns
   - Groups data by project number
   - Calculates date ranges (from-to) for each project
   - Sums hours for each project

3. **Document Generation**:
   - Creates Word documents using DocumentFormat.OpenXml library
   - Includes creation date in the header
   - Lists project information (number, date range, total hours)
   - Handles special case where start and end dates are the same

## Technical Details

- **Framework**: .NET 10.0 Windows Forms
- **Libraries**:
  - ClosedXML for Excel processing
  - DocumentFormat.OpenXml for Word document creation
- **Architecture**: Single form application with asynchronous processing

## Files Created

1. `ExcelToWordConverter/` - Main application
   - `Form1.cs` - Main form logic
   - `Form1.Designer.cs` - Form layout
   - `Program.cs` - Application entry point
   - `ExcelToWordConverter.csproj` - Project configuration
   - `README.md` - User documentation

2. `sample_data.xlsx` - Sample Excel data for testing

3. `template_example.docx` - Example of output document format

## How to Build and Run

1. Navigate to the ExcelToWordConverter directory
2. Run `dotnet build` to build the project
3. Run `dotnet run` to start the application

## Usage Instructions

1. Launch the application
2. Select an Excel file with project data
3. Specify the output Word document location
4. Click "Przetwórz" to convert the data
5. The resulting Word document will contain the processed information

## Sample Data Format

The Excel file should have the following format:
- First row: Headers ("Nr projektu", "Data", "Godziny")
- Subsequent rows: Data rows with project information

Example:
| Nr projektu | Data       | Godziny |
|-------------|------------|---------|
| PROJ001     | 2025-01-15 | 8.5     |
| PROJ001     | 2025-01-16 | 7.0     |
| PROJ002     | 2025-01-20 | 6.0     |

## Output Format

The Word document will contain:
- Creation date
- For each project:
  - Project number
  - Date range (if start and end dates are the same, only one date is shown)
  - Sum of hours

Example output:
```
Data utworzenia: 16.10.2025

Nr projektu: PROJ001
Zakres dat: 15.01.2025-16.01.2025
Suma godzin: 15.5

Nr projektu: PROJ002
Zakres dat: 20.01.2025-22.01.2025
Suma godzin: 19.5
```

Commit message:

Revised Project Summary formatting and terminology
Updated project summary with formatting changes and corrected terms.

ProjectSummary.md, after:

# Excel to Word Converter - Project Summary

## Project Overview

This project implements a .NET WinForms application that converts data from Excel files to Word documents according to specific requirements.

## Features Implemented

1. **User Interface**:
   - File selection for input Excel file
   - File selection for output Word document
   - Process button to initiate conversion
   - Progress bar and status indicators

2. **Data Processing**:
   - Reads Excel files using ClosedXML library
   - Processes data with "Nr projektu" (Project Number) and "Data" (Date) columns
   - Groups data by project number
   - Calculates date ranges (from-to) for each project
   - Sums hours for each project

3. **Document Generation**:
   - Creates Word documents using DocumentFormat.OpenXml library
   - Includes creation date in the header
   - Lists project information (number, date range, total hours)
   - Handles special case where start and end dates are the same

## Technical Details

- **Framework**: .NET 10.0 Windows Forms
- **Libraries**:
  - ClosedXML for Excel processing
  - DocumentFormat.OpenXml for Word document creation
- **Architecture**: Single form application with asynchronous processing

## Files Of The Project

1. `ExcelToWordConverter/` - Main application
   - `Form1.cs` - Main form logic
   - `Form1.Designer.cs` - Form layout
   - `Program.cs` - Application entry point
   - `ExcelToWordConverter.csproj` - Project configuration
   - `README.md` - User documentation

2. `sample_data.xlsx` - Sample Excel data for testing

3. `template_example.docx` - Example of output document format

## How to Build and Run

1. Navigate to the ExcelToWordConverter directory
2. Run `dotnet build` to build the project
3. Run `dotnet run` to start the application

## Usage Instructions

1. Launch the application
2. Select an Excel file with project data
3. Specify the output Word document location
4. Click "Proccess" to convert the data
5. The resulting Word document will contain the processed information

## Sample Data Format

The Excel file should have the following format:
- First row: Headers ("Nr projektu", "Data", "Godziny")
- Subsequent rows: Data rows with project information

Example:
| Nr projektu | Data       | Godziny |
|-------------|------------|---------|
| PROJ001     | 2025-01-15 | 8.5     |
| PROJ001     | 2025-01-16 | 7.0     |
| PROJ002     | 2025-01-20 | 6.0     |

## Output Format

The Word document will contain:
- Creation date
- For each project:
  - Project number
  - Date range (if start and end dates are the same, only one date is shown)
  - Sum of hours

Example output:
```
Data utworzenia: 16.10.2025

Project Nr: PROJ001
Date-Range: 15.01.2025-16.01.2025
Hours summary: 15.5

Project Nr: PROJ002
Date-Range: 20.01.2025-22.01.2025
Hours summary: 19.5

```
